---
id: setup
title: Setup & Running
sidebar_label: Setup & Running
---

In order to get **EventBridge Atlas** setup and running you will need to fill in the .env file.

### .env file

You should see `.env-example` in the directory. Rename this to `.env`.

Your env file will look something like this

```bash

# The name of your custom event bus. Used to get the rules for each event on your bus.
EVENT_BUS_NAME=

# Your schema registry name. (Discovered Schema Registry name. Continue to read docs to see how you can set this up)
SCHEMA_REGISTRY_NAME=

# Region the event bus is in
REGION=

# AWS ACCESS KEY
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=

# AWS SECRET KEY
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=

# AWS SESSION TOKEN
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=

```

> Hopefully most things in the .env are understandable, but if you are struggling feel free to reach out or leave a comment on the GitHub repo and I will add more information to help people.

### Running the application

Now you have setup your `.env` file we are good to go.

You have two options to run the project:

1. Run locally using your own AWS CLI (version 2)
2. Using docker (AWS cli installed within docker) and hosted within the docker file.

### 1. Running locally

To run locally you must have [aws-cli installed on your machine (project tested with version 2.x)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/).

Once you have `aws-cli` setup. Run the command:

```
npm run start:local
```

This will:

- Downloading the AWS schema information required
- Generate your documentation
- Run **EventBridge Atlas** on [localhost:8080](http:localhost:8080)

Docker is used to generate your docs and will output the following folders:

- `generated-docs` - These are generated by **EventBridge Atlas** (No need to edit these)
- `docs-html` - This is the final output. **Host these where ever you want!**

> 🔥 docs-html is the output. Static HTML which can be hosted anywhere! Awesome!

**If you run into any issues it might be worth trying step 2.**

### 2. Running with Docker

I have created a Dockerfile to help people which might not have AWS CLI version required installed on their machine or having problems running locally.

This docker file will bootstrap **EventBridge Atlas** for you and use the `aws` CLI within the container.

To get started, let's build the image

```
docker build -t eventbridge-atlas .
```

_This docker file will install aws-cli within a container and generate our docs_

---

Now we have the image built lets run it.

```
docker run --env-file .env -p 8080:8080 -it eventbridge-atlas
```

Here we are running the docker image we just created and passing our `.env` file into it which will be used to get your schema information. Ports are mapping and you should be able to go to [localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

> Remember to have your .env file setup. If you run into any problems feel free to reach out.

### 3. Whats next

Now (hopefully) you should have your events displayed and documented! Awesome.

Now you can customise your events further.... keep reading the next section to find out how.
